Peisheng Zhao, Chao Li, Jianxun Jiang, Lingwei Chen, Xiaolu Wang,
A novel framework utilizing 3D Gaussian Splatting to construct building geometry for urban wind simulations,
Sustainable Cities and Society,
Volume 123,
2025,
106237,
ISSN 2210-6707,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scs.2025.106237.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2210670725001143)
Abstract: Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation is an essential method in urban wind environment assessment. Rapid and accurate establishment of detailed architectural geometric models is a crucial prerequisite for high-quality CFD simulations. Utilizing point cloud to generate these models is one of the mainstream methods. However, due to the lack of attention to the efficiency and accuracy of building point cloud generation, and the inability to extract sufficient details when establishing geometric topology, the geometric models generated by existing methods are not suitable for CFD simulations. To address these issues, this study proposes an algorithm framework based on 3D Gaussian Splatting. First, sparse points are generated using images taken by drones through COLMAP. Subsequently, a scene segmentation method based on these points is proposed to divide the entire scene into uniform blocks. For the first time, the 3D Gaussian Splatting is introduced and improved to generate high-precision building point clouds with a significant speed increase. Additionally, an integrated algorithm is designed to extract vegetation, terrain, and buildings in the point cloud, then simplify and refine the building contours to generate geometric models suitable for CFD simulation. Compared with traditional methods, this framework successfully extends the scene to the city scale with adjustable details. The accuracy of point clouds improves by an average of 12%, the generation speed increases by 3–5 times, the geometric model detail level reaches LoD2 and LoD2.5, and can be further improved with customized flight plannings. Finally, pedestrian comfort analysis based on CFD simulations and WebGIS visualization was conducted., with the simulation results monotonically converging, and the grid convergence index reaching 3.76% in the pressure field. These results indicate that the algorithm framework is suitable for typical urban wind field simulations.
Keywords: CFD; Urban wind field; 3D Gaussian splatting; Point cloud; Architectural geometry

Mathias Steinbach, Reinhard Hemmerling,
Accelerating batch processing of spatial raster analysis using GPU,
Computers & Geosciences,
Volume 45,
2012,
Pages 212-220,
ISSN 0098-3004,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cageo.2011.11.012.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0098300411003918)
Abstract: Batch processing of raster data performed by geographic information systems (GIS) is a time consuming procedure. Modern high performance GPUs are able to perform hundreds of arithmetical operations in parallel. These GPUs can help to reduce the computing time of such operations. In addition, most of the commonly used raster operations are I/O-bounded. Memory transfer between hard disk and RAM takes up more time than computations. The scope of this paper is to present an efficient two-level caching strategy for raster data and an acceleration of selected raster operations using the GPU, which were implemented as a plugin for the open source software GRASS. An example data flow based on a real world use-case will be presented and the obtainable and practically expectable speedup will be measured and discussed.
Keywords: OpenCL; GPU; GIS; Raster analysis; Caching
